docs: scroll-view proposal (#478)
electron/governance: wg-api/spec-documents/scroll-view.md

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2891206/150981006-84fe796e-60bd-43c0-952d-831d1bfd9998.gif)

## Usage Example

```js
const { BaseWindow, ContainerView, ScrollView, BrowserView } = require("electron");

const window = new BaseWindow({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

const scroll = new ScrollView()
scroll.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

const scrollContent = new ContainerView()
scrollContent.setBounds({ width: 2000, height: 500 })

const browserView1 = new BrowserView()
browserView1.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })
scrollContent.addBrowserView(browserView1)

const browserView2 = new BrowserView()
browserView2.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500, x: 1000 })
scrollContent.addBrowserView(browserView2)

scroll.setContentView(scrollContent);
win.setContainerView(scroll);
```

## API Design

In order to achieve the example above, we've made following changes to the API

### BaseView

A `BaseView` is a rectangle within the views View hierarchy. It is the base
class for all all different views. 

Process: **Main**

`BaseView` is an EventEmitter

#### Static Methods

> * `BaseView.getAllViews()`

Reviewer: What's the intended use case for this method?

Reviewer 2: It returns all ScrollView's created - added for consistency (BaseView.getAllViews() -> ScrollView.getAllViews())

Reviewer: I think this is kind of a misfeature in BaseView, I don't see the value in maintaining this list.

Reviewer 2: We can remove this function from the proposal, no prob. The main goal for the API is to have the possibility to build hierarchy of views - ScrollView is the most important part.

Reviewer: Cool, sounds good. Let's not add functions that have no clear purpose :)

Reviewer 2: Removed - also did the small adjustment in the example :)

* `getParentWindow()` - Returns `BrowserWindow || null` - The window that the view belongs to, otherwise returns 	`null`

	*Note: The view can belong to either a view or a window.* 

#### Events

* `size-changed`
  
- - - 

### BrowserWindow 

#### New instance methods

* `addChildView(view)` 
* `removeChildView(view)`
* `getViews()`

- - -

### ContainerView

A `ContainerView` can be used to embed additional views hierarchy into a `BrowserWindow`. It extends `BaseView`

Process: **Main**

#### Static Methods

* `ContainerView.fromId(id)` 

#### Instance Methods

* `addChildView(view)`
* `removeChildView(view)`
* `getViews()` - Returns an array of all BaseViews that have been attached

### ScrollView

Show a part of view with scrollbar.  The `ScrollView` can show an arbitrary content view inside it. It is used to make any View scrollable. When the content is larger than the `ScrollView`, scrollbars will be optionally showed. When the content view is smaller then the `ScrollView`, the content view will be resized to the size of the `ScrollView`. The scrollview supports keyboard UI and mousewheel. It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

#### Static Methods

> * `ScrollView.fromId(id)`

Reviewer: Do we need a `fromId` method here? What's the use case for storing ID numbers as opposed to using a reference to the object itself?

Reviewer 2: Probably we will not need it; also we could ride of 'id' property too. I added BaseView.fromId() and `baseView.id` property for consistency with other Electron APIs.

Reviewer: If there's not a clear purpose for the API, I think it's fine to remove it. The IDs on older APIs also don't serve a clear purpose IMO (perhaps they made more sense when `remote` was more popular?) so I don't think it's worth copying them for consistency here.

Reviewer 2: OK, removing

Reviewer 3: removed in b70f92aa91ae0991777332ac8af1ad34586ed0fc

> #### Instance Methods

Reviewer: would you mind reformatting this section to match the format of our docs? It's a little hard to read as is.

Reviewer 2: I reformated the API description, hopefully it's better now.

* `setVerticalScrollBarMode(mode)` - similar as `setHorizontalScrollBarMode`
* `getHorizontalScrollBarMode()`
* `getVerticalScrollBarMode()`
* `setHorizontalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` (*macOS*) - possible values: `automatic`, `none`, `allowed`. Default is `automatic`.
  
  The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.
  A scroll view can scroll its contents past its bounds to achieve an elastic effect. 
  When set to `automatic`, scrolling the horizontal axis beyond its document bounds only occurs if the document width is greater than the view width, or the vertical scroller is hidden and the horizontal scroller is visible.
  * `automatic` - Automatically determine whether to allow elasticity on this axis.
  * `none` - Disallow scrolling beyond document bounds on this axis.
  * `allowed` - Allow content to be scrolled past its bounds on this axis in an elastic fashion.

* `setVerticalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` (_macOS_) - similar to `setHorizontalScrollElasticity`
* `getHorizontalScrollElasticity()` (_macOS_)
* `getVerticalScrollElasticity()` (_macOS_)
* `scrollTo({ x, y })`

#### Events

* `scroll-started`

> * `scroll-ended`

Reviewer: any others?

### WrapperBrowserView

> A `WrapperBrowserView` is the wrapper for `BrowserView`. It extends [`BaseView`](base-view.md).

Reviewer: Why is this wrapper necessary? It seems a bit awkward. Can we just use the BrowserView directly?

Reviewer 2: I added WrapperBrowserView for clarity in the implementation. The thing is, on Mac, I defined the ElectronNativeView interface (inheriting from NSView), on the other hand, InspectableWebContentsViewMac creates ElectronInspectableWebContentsView.
I could get rid of WrapperBrowserView and add the addBrowserView / removeBrowserView functions to ContainerView instead.

Reviewer 3: > I could get rid of WrapperBrowserView and add the addBrowserView / removeBrowserView functions to ContainerView instead.

I haven't thought through the implications so feel free to shoot this down, but could `addView()` just take `BaseView | BrowserView` instead and let the implementation call the right function  under the covers? If we have a new function named `addView()` then surely people are going to try passing BrowserViews into it

Reviewer 2: What about `containerView.getChildren`? Should it return only BaseViews?
Maybe a better idea would be to replace WrapperBrowserView by WebView - inheriting from BaseView - with an interface analogous to BrowserView?

# Scroll View

## Summary

> This spec proposes to add an experimental native ScrollView component to Electron.

Reviewer 3: docs: all these APIs should be flagged with `_Experimental_`

Reviewer 2: fixed

wrapperBrowserView2.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500, x: 1000 })
scrollContent.addChild(wrapperBrowserView2)

scroll.setContentView(scrollContent);
win.addChild(scroll);
```

## API Design

In order to achieve the example above, we've made following changes to the API

## BaseView

A `BaseView` is a rectangle within the views View hierarchy. It is the base
class for all all different views. 

Process: **Main**

`BaseView` is an EventEmitter

### `new BaseView()`

Creates the new base view.

### Instance Methods

#### `view.setBounds(bounds)`

Resizes and moves the view to the supplied bounds relative to its parent.

#### `view.getBounds()`

Returns the position and size of the view.

#### `view.setBackgroundColor(color)`

Change the background color of the view.

#### `view.getParent()`

Returns `BaseView || null` - The parent view, otherwise returns `null`.

#### `view.getWindow()`

Returns `BrowserWindow || null` - The window that the view belongs to, otherwise returns `null`.

### Events

#### Event: 'size-changed'

Emitted when the view's size has been changed.

 
## BrowserWindow 

### New instance methods

> #### `win.addChild(view)`

Reviewer 2: > What happens if an already-parented child gets passed into this? Do we throw, return a pass/fail flag, etc
A child will be first detached from its current parent, and next added to a new one.
> What happens if when someone who's not developing in a strongly-typed environment passes a BrowserView into this? Does it error out, do we implicitly wrap it in a new WrapperBrowserView, etc.
For now exactly the same behaviour as in case of BaseWindow.addBrowserView: just does nothing (if the conversion fails)

> #### `win.removeChild(view)`

Reviewer 2: > What happens if passed in a view that is not a child -- is there any mechanism for the caller to know that this failed?

For now exactly the same behaviour as in case of BaseWindow.removeBrowserView - just does nothing

> Can this be used to remove any descendant view, or just direct children?

Just direct children

#### `win.getChildren()`

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached
with `addChild`.

## ContainerView

A `ContainerView` can be used to embed additional views hierarchy into a `BrowserWindow`. It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### `new ContainerView()`

Creates the new container view.

### Instance Methods

#### `containerView.addChild(view)`

> #### `containerView.removeChild(view)`

Reviewer 2: The same answers :)

#### `containerView.getChildren()`

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached
with `addChild`.

## ScrollView

The `ScrollView` can show an arbitrary content view inside it. It is used to make
any View scrollable. When the content is larger than the `ScrollView`,
scrollbars will be optionally showed. When the content view is smaller
then the `ScrollView`, the content view will be resized to the size of the
`ScrollView`.
It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### `new ScrollView()`

Creates the new scroll view.

### Instance Methods

#### `scrollView.setContentView(contents)`

Set the contents. The contents is the view that needs to scroll.

#### `scrollView.getContentView()`

Returns `BaseView` - The contents of the `scrollView`.

#### `scrollView.setContentSize(size)`

Set the size of the contents.

#### `scrollView.getContentSize()`

Returns the `size` of the contents.

#### `scrollView.setHorizontalScrollBarMode(mode)`

> * `mode` string - Can be one of the following values: `disabled`, `hidden-but-enabled`, `enabled`. Default is `enabled`.

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
* `mode` string - Can be `disabled`, `hidden-but-enabled`, `enabled`. Default is `enabled`.
```

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

Controls how the horizontal scroll bar appears and functions.

> * `disable` - The scrollbar is hidden.

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
* `disabled` - The scrollbar is hidden.
```

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

> * `hidden-but-enabled` - The scrollbar is hidden whether or not the contents are larger than the viewport, but the pane will respond to scroll events. This option is not available on MacOS.

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
* `hidden-but-enabled` - The scrollbar is hidden whether or not the contents are larger than the viewport, but the pane will respond to scroll events. _Linux_  _Windows_
```

Reviewer 3: bikeshed: `enabled-but-hidden` feels slightly better than `hidden-but-enabled`

Reviewer 3: Changed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

*`enabled` - The scrollbar will be visible if the contents are larger than the viewport.

#### `scrollView.setVerticalScrollBarMode(mode)`

Controls how the vertical scroll bar appears and functions.

> #### `getHorizontalScrollBarMode()`

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
#### `scrollView.getHorizontalScrollBarMode()`
```

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

Returns `string` - horizontal scrollbar mode.

#### `scrollView.getVerticalScrollBarMode()`

Returns `string` - vertical scrollbar mode.

#### `scrollView.setHorizontalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` _macOS_

> * `elasticity` string - Can be one of the following values: `automatic`, `none`, `allowed`. Default is `automatic`.

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
* `elasticity` string - Can be `automatic`, `none`, `allowed`. Default is `automatic`.
```

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.
A scroll view can scroll its contents past its bounds to achieve an elastic effect. 
When set to `automatic`, scrolling the horizontal axis beyond its document
bounds only occurs if the document width is greater than the view width,
or the vertical scroller is hidden and the horizontal scroller is visible.
* `automatic` - Automatically determine whether to allow elasticity on this axis.
* `none` - Disallow scrolling beyond document bounds on this axis.

> *`allowed` - Allow content to be scrolled past its bounds on this axis in an elastic fashion.

Reviewer 3: docs:

```suggestion
* `allowed` - Allow content to be scrolled past its bounds on this axis in an elastic fashion.
```

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

> #### `scrollView.setVerticalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` _macOS_

Reviewer 3: docs: need to copy the `Can be ...` section here too.

Reviewer 2: fixed

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.getHorizontalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.

> #### `view.getVerticalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### `scrollView.getVerticalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `view.setScrollPosition(point)` _macOS_

* `point` - The point in the `contentView` to scroll to.

Scrolls the view’s closest ancestor `clipView` object so a point in the
view lies at the origin of the clip view's bounds rectangle.

#### `view.getScrollPosition()` _macOS_

Returns `Point`

#### `view.getMaximumScrollPosition()` _macOS_

Returns `Point`

#### Events

#### `scroll-started`
#### `scroll-ended`

> #### `bounds-did-change`

Reviewer 3: Do these have any parameters?

Reviewer 2: updated the events description

## WrapperBrowserView

A `WrapperBrowserView` is the wrapper for `BrowserView`. It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### `new WrapperBrowserView([options])`

* `options` Object (optional)
  * `browserView` (optional)

> If `browserView` is not set then new `BrowserView` is created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `browserView` is not set then new a `BrowserView` is created.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

Reviewer 3: fixed in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

# Scroll View

## Summary

This spec proposes to add an experimental native ScrollView component to Electron.

## Platforms
* macOS 
* Windows
* Linux

## Impetus

It is currently not possible to add scrolling functionality around BrowserViews:

* Capture mouse / touch events
* Reposition BrowserViews accordingly

More details of the use-case and challenges related to workarounds: [#32751](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/32751)

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2891206/150981006-84fe796e-60bd-43c0-952d-831d1bfd9998.gif)

## Usage Example

```js
const { BrowserView, BrowserWindow, ContainerView, ScrollView, WrapperBrowserView } = require("electron");

> const window = new BrowserWindow({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

Reviewer: Should this use `BaseWindow` instead of `BrowserWindow`?

Reviewer 2: My current implementation works for both - BaseWindow and BrowserWindow. BrowserWindow has additional features - like triggering the before unload handlers etc. That's why I added to this spec baseWindow.addChild / baseWindow.removeChild (applicable for BrowserWindow too).

const scroll = new ScrollView()
scroll.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

const scrollContent = new ContainerView()
scrollContent.setBounds({ width: 2000, height: 500 })

const browserView1 = new BrowserView()
const wrapperBrowserView1 = new WrapperBrowserView({ 'browserView': browserView1 });
wrapperBrowserView1.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })
scrollContent.addBrowserView(wrapperBrowserView1)

const browserView2 = new BrowserView()
const wrapperBrowserView2 = new WrapperBrowserView({ 'browserView': browserView2 });
wrapperBrowserView2.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500, x: 1000 })
scrollContent.addBrowserView(wrapperBrowserView2)

scroll.setContentView(scrollContent);
win.addChildView(scroll);
```

## API Design

In order to achieve the example above, we've made following changes to the API

## BaseView

A `BaseView` is a rectangle within the views View hierarchy. It is the base
class for all all different views. 

Process: **Main**

`BaseView` is an EventEmitter

### Static Methods

#### `BaseView.getAllViews()`

> Returns the array of all created views.

Reviewer: I thought this was dropped?

Reviewer 2: I dropped for ScrollView, I can drop this one too.

Reviewer 3: removed in b70f92aa91ae0991777332ac8af1ad34586ed0fc

#### `BaseView.fromId(id)`

Returns `BaseView | null` - The view with the given `id`.

### Instance Properties

#### `view.id`

A `Integer` property representing the unique ID of the view.

#### `view.isContainer`

> A `boolean` property that determines whether this view is `ContainerView`.

Reviewer: This is kind of weird, the JS way to do this would be to write `view instanceof ContainerView`.

Reviewer 2: I agree

Reviewer 3: :+1: for instanceof; the `isFoo()` idiom doesn't scale as well if more View classes are added later

removed in b70f92aa91ae0991777332ac8af1ad34586ed0fc

### Instance Methods

#### `view.setBounds(bounds)`

Resizes and moves the view to the supplied bounds relative to its parent.

#### `view.getBounds()`

Returns the position and size of the view.

#### `view.setBackgroundColor(color)`

Change the background color of the view.

#### `view.getParentView()`

Returns `BaseView || null` - The parent view, otherwise returns `null`.

> #### `view.getParentWindow()`

Reviewer: nit: I don't think `parent` is the best name here; that implies a direct relationship, but there are possibly several views in the hierarchy between the view and the window. Perhaps `getOwnerWindow` or just `getWindow`?

Reviewer 2: That's the relationship; thus a view may be a child of either another view or a window. The best would be to have baseView.getParent() returning BaseView|BaseWindow.

Reviewer: hmm, i disagree. a Window seems like a categorically different thing from a View, it would be weird to have one function to return either. the relationship is "ancestor" not "parent", no?

Reviewer 2: That's parent relationship :)

Reviewer: I'm confused.

```
window
+-- view1
    +-- view2
```

`window` is not the parent of `view2`. I would argue that calling it the parent of `view1` is also inaccurate, because conflating the _window_ with the _view tree_ is not a good metaphor. The window has a single root view that has no parent, which is the top of the view tree.

calling `view2.getWindow()` should return `window`.

Reviewer 2: Well, I agree, that should looks like that.
For the following scenario:
```
browserwindow1.addChild(view1)
containerView1.addChild(view2)
```
- view1.getParentView() will return null
- view2.getParentView() will return containerView1
I assumed, that
- view2.getParentWindow() will return null
- view1.getParentWindow() will return browserWindow1
in this way, it would be possible to distinguish to which object a view has been added.
We can replace getParentWindow by getWindow - then both view1.getWindow () and view2.getWindow () would return browserWindow1 - no prob.

Returns `BrowserWindow || null` - The window that the view belongs to, otherwise returns `null`.

### Events

#### Event: 'size-changed'

> Emitted when the view's size has been changed.

Reviewer: What are the parameters to this event?

Reviewer 2: I added for the possibility to react to a scrollview being scrolled by the user. The event is sent when the bounds of contentView's are changed. The new bounds is the parameter for this event.

 
## BrowserWindow 

### New instance methods

#### `win.addChildView(view)`

#### `win.removeChildView(view)`

#### `win.getViews()`

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached

> with `addChildView`.

Reviewer: nit: perhaps `win.children`? Can this be a (read-only) property rather than a method?

> with `addChildView`.

Reviewer: Does this include the WebContentsView?

Reviewer 2: Notice, that I didn't changed the API - so WrapperBrowserView (inheriting from BaseView) is still defined. So ContainerView doesn't have addBrowserView/removeBrowserView - to avoid the issue you mentioned above.
I discussed with Cheng - who proposed that we could move the implementation of NativeBrowserView::UpdateDraggableRegions implementation to InspectableWebContentsView - this way we could rid off  of using BrowserView (and remove WrapperBrowserView) - and instead define a WebContentsBrowserView API (inheriting from BaseView) with similar functionality to BrowserView.

> ## ContainerView

Reviewer: Should this just be called `View`? Does it do anything special?

Reviewer 2: I agree. The think is that Electron has already `View` API - which assumes Chromium's views usage for all platforms. On the other hand we would need certain COCOA features, that's why I defined BaseView. Also - as I wrote before - we could merge ContainerView into BaseView.

Reviewer 3: The only reason for keeping them as separate classes is if we want to specifically disallow some View types from having children. e.g. do we want to disallow a ScrollView from having a child ScrollView.

There is some upside to that, but overall I think I'd prefer to merge the two classes so that the API has a smaller surface area.

A `ContainerView` can be used to embed additional views hierarchy into a `BrowserWindow`. It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### Instance Methods

#### `containerView.addChildView(view)`

#### `containerView.removeChildView(view)`

#### `containerView.getViews()`

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached

> with `addChildView`.

Reviewer: nit: I feel like these should just be `containerView.addChild(view)` / `containerView.removeChild(view)` / `containerView.children`. No need to repeat the word `view` over and over.

Reviewer 2: I agree

Reviewer 2: I renamed getViews on getChildren - as I don't know what to do with BaseWindow.getChildren/getViews; I feel that it shouldn't be a property in such case (because what about BaseWindow.getBrowserViews?...)

Reviewer 2: Restored the name `8418e0413a4cccc2258add477052713d647a9300` - currently defined in `View`.

## ScrollView

> Show a part of view with scrollbar. 

Reviewer: > with scrollbar

does this depend on the OS / environment? e.g. on macOS when there's no external mouse plugged in, the default behavior is to hide the scrollbar, but this changes dynamically as external mice are added/removed.

Reviewer 2: No, it doesn't depend on the OS, removed this sentence.

Reviewer: So does it fall to the app to implement scrollbar show/hide on macOS? Do we expose the necessary APIs to detect when the scrollbar should be shown or hidden?

Reviewer 2: Yes, scrollView.setHorizontalScrollBarMode and scrollView.setVerticalScrollBarMode

Reviewer 2: Actually... I think that we should detecting properly, I'm not sure.

The `ScrollView` can show an arbitrary content view inside it. It is used to make
any View scrollable. When the content is larger than the `ScrollView`,
scrollbars will be optionally showed. When the content view is smaller
then the `ScrollView`, the content view will be resized to the size of the
`ScrollView`.

> The scrollview supports keyboard UI and mousewheel.

Reviewer: What keyboard UI? Is this customizable by an app?

Reviewer 2: I'm removing this sentence too. I think that I took it from views::ScrollView dscription, the description of API needs to be general.

Reviewer 3: removed in b70f92aa91ae0991777332ac8af1ad34586ed0fc

It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### Static Methods

#### `ScrollView.fromId(id)`

Returns `ScrollView | null` - The scroll view with the given `id`.

> ### Instance Methods

Reviewer: Is there a constructor for this class?

Reviewer 2: Yes, adding to this spec

Reviewer 3: added in b70f92aa91ae0991777332ac8af1ad34586ed0fc

#### `scrollView.setContentView(contents)`

Set the contents. The contents is the view that needs to scroll.

#### `scrollView.getContentView()`

Returns `BaseView` - The contents of the `scrollView`.

> #### `scrollView.setContentSize(size)`

Reviewer: it seems a bit odd to me to set the size of the child view through a method on the parent. which way does this information flow? Does the content view choose its own size, or does the scroll view set the size of the content?

Reviewer 2: On Mac I defined this function as follows:
```
void NativeScrollView::SetContentSize(const gfx::Size& size) {
  auto* scroll = static_cast<ElectronNativeScrollView*>(GetNative());
  NSSize content_size = size.ToCGSize();
  [scroll setContentSize:content_size];
  [scroll.documentView setFrameSize:content_size];
}
```
That's the only way to set the content's size I think. Using setBounds for content of the scrollView causes the issue when scrollView's bounds are changed (scroll's content stops working).

* `elasticity` string - Can be one of the following values: `automatic`, `none`, `allowed`. Default is `automatic`.

The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.
A scroll view can scroll its contents past its bounds to achieve an elastic effect. 
When set to `automatic`, scrolling the horizontal axis beyond its document
bounds only occurs if the document width is greater than the view width,
or the vertical scroller is hidden and the horizontal scroller is visible.
* `automatic` - Automatically determine whether to allow elasticity on this axis.
* `none` - Disallow scrolling beyond document bounds on this axis.
*`allowed` - Allow content to be scrolled past its bounds on this axis in an elastic fashion.

#### `scrollView.setVerticalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` _macOS_

The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.getHorizontalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `view.getVerticalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.scrollTo(point)` _macOS_

> * `point` - The point in the `contentView` to scroll to.

Reviewer: perhaps a way to get the current scroll position would be useful?

Reviewer 2: That's right. Actually I defined the functions: setScrollPosition, getScrollPosition, getMaximumScrollPosition. I'm adjusting this spec.

Reviewer 3: Is this need on Win / Linux, and do you have plans in that area?  This API seems pretty elaborate for single-platform use.

Reviewer 3: There is a lot of `_macOS_`-only API here and some of it, e.g. `view.setScrollPosition()`, seems important to having a well-behaved app. Is this functionality needed for Windows and Linux as well?

If I'm misunderstanding, e.g. if this is only relevant on macOS, maybe the docs could have sample code of what a well-behaved client that runs on all three would look like.

Reviewer 2: That's right, this functionality should exist on all platforms. I have not yet defined how consistent behavior would be achieved, Chromium has View::ScrollRectToVisible defined. I will focus on that in the next step.

Reviewer 2: fixed

Reviewer 3: moved from _macOS_ to _Experimental_ in 372905c240d9fc6953d2e7aefca0b1d6fcd2b795

Reviewer 4: []().```RAD.E¥E.S5¥```.

#### `scrollView.getHorizontalScrollElasticity()` _Experimental_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.getVerticalScrollElasticity()` _Experimental_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `view.setScrollPosition(point)` _Experimental_

* `point` - The point in the `contentView` to scroll to.

Scroll to the horizontal (`point.x`) and vertical (`point.y`) position.

#### `view.getScrollPosition()` _Experimental_

Returns `Point` - The horizontal and vertical scroll position.

#### `view.getMaximumScrollPosition()` _Experimental_

Returns `Point` - The maximum horizontal and vertical scroll position.

#### Events

#### Event: 'did-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the content view is being scrolled.

#### Event: 'start-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted at the beginning of user-initiated scroll tracking.

#### Event: 'end-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted at the end of scroll tracking.

## Rollout Plan

- add the documentation to [Views API (Part 1)](views-api-1-content-view.md)

> - Move the implementation from `BrowserView` to `InspectableWebContentsView` (in particular the implementation of draggable regions)

Reviewer 5: I'd like to learn more about `InspectableWebContentsView`, haven't seen it mentioned elsewhere in the RFC 😮

# Scroll View

## Summary

This spec proposes to add an experimental native ScrollView component to Electron.

## Platforms
* macOS 
* Windows
* Linux

## Impetus

It is currently not possible to add scrolling functionality around BrowserViews:

> * Capture mouse / touch events

Reviewer: I don't see any new events for capturing e.g. a click on a view. Is that out of scope for this?

Reviewer 2: It is out of scopefor this spec; we extended the implementation for such functionalities.

* Reposition BrowserViews accordingly

More details of the use-case and challenges related to workarounds: [#32751](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/32751)

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2891206/150981006-84fe796e-60bd-43c0-952d-831d1bfd9998.gif)

## Usage Example

```js
const { BrowserView, BrowserWindow, BaseView, ScrollView, WebBrowserView } = require("electron");

const window = new BrowserWindow({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

const scroll = new ScrollView()
scroll.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })

const scrollContent = new BaseView()
scrollContent.setBounds({ width: 2000, height: 500 })

const webBrowserView1 = new WebBrowserView()
webBrowserView1.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500 })
scrollContent.addChild(webBrowserView1)

const webBrowserView2 = new WebBrowserView()
webBrowserView2.setBounds({ width: 1000, height: 500, x: 1000 })
scrollContent.addChild(webBrowserView2)

scroll.setContentView(scrollContent);
win.addChild(scroll);
```

## API Design

> In order to achieve the example above, we've made following changes to the API

Reviewer 2: Added in 8f0179291c9f2a51ec2b529b9b56872c521eb704

## BaseView

A `BaseView` is a rectangle within the views View hierarchy. It is the base

> class for all all different views. 

Reviewer: What's the relationship between this and the existing `View` class?

Reviewer 2: I couldn't make BaseView and View compatible - because COCOA used for BaseView (on Mac). So there is no relationship.

Reviewer: Wait, what cocoa-specific features are in BaseView? I would think those could be integrated into View. We should NOT have two _different_ View base classes.

Reviewer 2: At https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/32751#issuecomment-1034811577 we were discussing with @zcbenz this topic, he agreed for the possibility  of use NSView on macOS and views::View on others.
There are several reasons why I have designed the current implementation in this direction:
- vibrancy effect on Mac for views,
- animations for setting the bounds, scaling etc. easily implementable in Cocoa,
- some other visual properties, like shapes for NSView;
Most of these features can also be achieved with Chromium views, but probably not all.

Reviewer: I don't think we want to expose any NSView stuff directly. If we need extra features from views that views doesn't already support, I think it could make sense to patch those things in or otherwise extend views to support them. But I think it is a bad idea to have one API that backs onto views on win/linux and onto NSView/Cocoa on mac. Chrome used to do this and moved away from it.

Views [supports animations](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:ui/views/animation/); I'm not sure what you mean by "shaping" but `View::SetClipPath` is a thing. Vibrancy isn't supported by views, but it seems like something we could build on top of views if needed. I don't think it calls for a whole separate implementation.

Reviewer 2: There is a lot of bugs with the Chromium's ScrollView, for example UiCompositorScrollWithLayers (which provides the dezired performance for WebViews) is implemented only on MacOs. But currently we're working on it, we already have a ready solution for Windows, we also implement other features (to be consistent with Mac) - such as elasticity. So we agree that in this situation the best solution is to use Chromium views on all platforms - and implement the missing features.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in 8418e0413a4cccc2258add477052713d647a9300

#### `view.removeChild(view)` _Experimental_

* `view` BaseView

#### `view.getChildren()` _Experimental_

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached
with `addChild`.

### Events

#### Event: 'size-changed' _Experimental_

Emitted when the view's size has been changed.

 
## BrowserWindow 

### New instance methods

#### `win.addChild(view)` _Experimental_

* `view` BaseView

#### `win.removeChild(view)` _Experimental_

* `view` BaseView

#### `win.getChildren()` _Experimental_

Returns `BaseView[]` - an array of all BaseViews that have been attached
with `addChild`.

## ScrollView

The `ScrollView` can show an arbitrary content view inside it. It is used to make
any View scrollable. When the content is larger than the `ScrollView`,
scrollbars will be optionally showed. When the content view is smaller
then the `ScrollView`, the content view will be resized to the size of the
`ScrollView`.
It extends `BaseView`.

Process: **Main**

### `new ScrollView()` _Experimental_

Creates the new scroll view.

### Instance Methods

#### `scrollView.setContentView(contents)` _Experimental_

Set the contents. The contents is the view that needs to scroll.

> #### `scrollView.getContentView()` _Experimental_

Reviewer 2: This is the view the scroll view scrolls within its content view.

A scroll view can scroll its contents past its bounds to achieve an elastic effect. 
When set to `automatic`, scrolling the horizontal axis beyond its document
bounds only occurs if the document width is greater than the view width,
or the vertical scroller is hidden and the horizontal scroller is visible.
* `automatic` - Automatically determine whether to allow elasticity on this axis.
* `none` - Disallow scrolling beyond document bounds on this axis.
* `allowed` - Allow content to be scrolled past its bounds on this axis in an elastic fashion.

#### `scrollView.setVerticalScrollElasticity(elasticity)` _macOS_ _Experimental_

* `elasticity` string - Can be `automatic`, `none`, `allowed`. Default is `automatic`.

The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.getHorizontalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_ _Experimental_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s horizontal scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `scrollView.getVerticalScrollElasticity()` _macOS_ _Experimental_

Returns `string` - The scroll view’s vertical scrolling elasticity mode.

#### `view.setScrollPosition(point)` _Experimental_

* `point` - The point in the `contentView` to scroll to.

> Scrolls the view’s closest ancestor `clipView` object so a point in the

Reviewer 2: An internal object that clips a document view to a scroll view's frame. (taken from Apple documentation)

> Scrolls the view’s closest ancestor `clipView` object so a point in the

Reviewer 2: Fixed in e7a24bd167633310339960ae36263c88f3657388

view lies at the origin of the clip view's bounds rectangle.

#### `view.getScrollPosition()` _Experimental_

Returns `Point`

> #### `view.getMaximumScrollPosition()` _Experimental_

Reviewer 2: Fixed in e7a24bd167633310339960ae36263c88f3657388

Returns `Point`

#### Events

#### Event: 'did-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the content view is being scrolled.

#### Event: 'start-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted at the beginning of user-initiated scroll tracking.

#### Event: 'end-scroll' _Experimental_

Returns:

* `event` Event

> Emitted at the end of scroll tracking.

Reviewer 5: * `did-scroll` and `end-scroll` are pretty similar in naming. Maybe something like `will-scroll` (before), `scroll` (during), and `did-scroll` (after) would work better?

* More detail for each event similar to https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/web-contents#event-will-navigate would be helpful. For instance, will the scroll be able to be cancelled via `event.preventDefault`?

Reviewer 2: This is for revisit in future - as currently taken from Apple documentation, it will need some adjustment when implementing by Chromium views.

Reviewer 5: Do you mean the naming convention is from Apple? Is this specific to Cocoa? Sorry if I'm misunderstanding!

Reviewer 2: Not really; slighty adjusted in 4b573a32b643c8f224c418b9aa83a12c65b7e210

## WebBrowserView

A `WebBrowserView` is the alternative for `BrowserView`. It extends `BaseView`, so it can be used as part of view's hierarchy.

Process: **Main**

### `new WebBrowserView([options])` _Experimental_

* `options` Object (optional)
  * `webPreferences` (optional)

### Instance Properties

#### `view.webContents` _Experimental_

A `WebContents` object owned by this view.

> ## Rollout Plan

Reviewer 2: > Can we want to hide this behind a command line switch at first? This would make it more explicit for users that this API is subject to change.
Would you like to hide  all APIs (BaseView, ScrollView, WebBrowserView) behind a command line switch? I think that would be possible.
> • Document existing View APIs that landed from @zcbenz
> • Next-gen view API replacing legacy BrowserView 
Looks reasonable for me.
> ◦ For stability: how do we maintain backward-compatibility for the deprecated BrowserView? Can we make it a JS API layer around the new WebBrowserView?
We could do it in that way. The previously proposed WrapperBrowserView would provide somehow  backward-compatibility for the BrowserView, we could add 'browserView' to the options of WebBrowserView. We would not be able add BrowserView to the hierarchy of BaseView directly.

> ## Rollout Plan

Reviewer 2: Added the few points in 8418e0413a4cccc2258add477052713d647a9300
